CAP-3753  Add OpenTelemetry Kube Stack setup guide to Kubernetes Explorer docs (#38552)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/containers/monitoring/kubernetes_explorer.md

[108]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/k8sattributesprocessor
[109]: https://github.com/DataDog/opentelemetry-examples/blob/main/guides/kubernetes/configuration/daemonset-collector.yaml
[111]: /opentelemetry/integrations/kubernetes_metrics/#setup
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenTelemetry Kube Stack" %}}

> The [`opentelemetry-kube-stack`][112] Helm chart installs the OpenTelemetry Operator and manages collectors as `OpenTelemetryCollector` CRs. Datadog maintains a reference [`values.yaml`][114] that configures two collectors:

Reviewer: `CRs` isn't spelled out on first use, and it isn't on the docs exempt list of abbreviations that can stand alone.

```suggestion
The [`opentelemetry-kube-stack`][112] Helm chart installs the OpenTelemetry Operator and manages collectors as `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resources (CRs). Datadog maintains a reference [`values.yaml`][114] that configures two collectors:
```

Author: fixed in https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38552/changes/7914669b16cba973e8295ee8ecda886306167c96

- **`cluster`** (Deployment): scrapes kube-state-metrics, watches Kubernetes objects, and enables `orchestrator_explorer` to populate Kubernetes Explorer.

> - **`daemon`** (DaemonSet): collects host and kubelet metrics, plus an OTLP endpoint for application telemetry.

Reviewer: Three small things in these two definition-style items:

- Definition-style list items capitalize the first word of the description.
- In the second item, `collects ... plus an OTLP endpoint` isn't parallel: the collector doesn't *collect* an endpoint, it exposes one.
- Per the word list, avoid "telemetry" on its own to mean the data. Use "telemetry data."

```suggestion
- **`cluster`** (Deployment): Scrapes kube-state-metrics, watches Kubernetes objects, and enables `orchestrator_explorer` to populate Kubernetes Explorer.
- **`daemon`** (DaemonSet): Collects host and kubelet metrics, and exposes an OTLP endpoint for application telemetry data.
```

#### Prerequisites

- OpenTelemetry Kube Stack Helm chart [0.20.0][113] or later.
- OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib [v0.154.0][102] or later (pinned by the reference values file).

> - cert-manager installed, for the operator's admission webhook.

Reviewer: The comma creates a false pause, and this item isn't parallel with the two prerequisites above it. 

```suggestion
- cert-manager, which is required for the operator's admission webhook.
```

#### Limitations

The open source `k8sobjects` receiver can place significant load on a cluster's Kubernetes API server.

Recommendations:
1. Use Kubernetes 1.33 or later, which includes [streaming list improvements][106] that reduce API server impact.

> 2. Start with smaller clusters. Limit the number of objects per resource type to fewer than 5,000 as a starting point, and scale up gradually while monitoring cluster health.

Reviewer: These are two independent recommendations rather than ordered steps, so a bulleted list fits better than a numbered one (numbered lists are reserved for sequential or ranked items).

The same block appears verbatim in the **OpenTelemetry** tab at lines 91-93 so worth changing both so the two copies stay in sync. 

```suggestion
Recommendations:

- Use Kubernetes 1.33 or later, which includes [streaming list improvements][106] that reduce API server impact.
- Start with smaller clusters. Limit the number of objects per resource type to fewer than 5,000 as a starting point, and scale up gradually while monitoring cluster health.
```

#### 1. Install cert-manager (if not already present)

```sh
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update

helm install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager --create-namespace \
  --set crds.enabled=true
```

#### 2. Create the Datadog secret

```sh
export DD_API_KEY="<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"

> export DD_SITE="<YOUR_DATADOG_SITE>"  # for example datadoghq.com, us3.datadoghq.com, datadoghq.eu

Reviewer: Optional: the **OpenTelemetry** tab links to the [Datadog site][104] page when it introduces `DD_SITE`. Since a code comment can't carry a link, consider adding a short prose line above this code block that links to `/getting_started/site/`, and defining the reference in this tab's link block.

kubectl create namespace opentelemetry-operator-system
kubectl create secret generic datadog-secret \
  --namespace opentelemetry-operator-system \
  --from-literal="api-key=$DD_API_KEY" \
  --from-literal="dd-site=$DD_SITE"
```

#### 3. Deploy the reference collectors

Download the reference [`values.yaml`][114] from the `opentelemetry-examples` repository, then install the chart:

```sh
helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts
helm repo update

helm upgrade --install opentelemetry-kube-stack open-telemetry/opentelemetry-kube-stack \
  --namespace opentelemetry-operator-system \
  --values values.yaml
```

> The required `k8s.cluster.name` is automatically detected on EKS, AKS, and GKE through the `resourceDetection` preset in the reference `values.yaml`. For other unsupported clouds, add a `resource/cluster` processor at the start of each pipeline:

Reviewer: `For other unsupported clouds` is doing two jobs at once and ends up self-contradictory. The previous sentence already names the supported clouds, so "other" and "unsupported" overlap. It also leaves out self-managed clusters, which are probably the most common case for readers who land here.

```suggestion
The required `k8s.cluster.name` is automatically detected on EKS, AKS, and GKE through the `resourceDetection` preset in the reference `values.yaml`. For other cloud providers or self-managed clusters, add a `resource/cluster` processor at the start of each pipeline:
```

```yaml
processors:
  resource/cluster:
    attributes:
      - key: k8s.cluster.name
        value: <YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME>
        action: insert
```

> Both collectors default to `500m` CPU / `1Gi` memory limits and `200m` CPU / `500Mi` memory requests. Scale up for large clusters.

Reviewer: Two things here:

- Datadog style avoids `/` used to mean "and" so you can write it out or restructure.
- `Scale up for large clusters.` is vague: scale what, and above what threshold? If there's a rough signal you can give (for example, object count or node count), that's much more actionable. If no number is available, leaving the sentence as-is is fine.

```suggestion
Both collectors default to limits of `500m` CPU and `1Gi` memory, and requests of `200m` CPU and `500Mi` memory. Scale up for large clusters.
```

#### 4. Verify the installation

> Open the [Kubernetes Explorer][1] and filter by your cluster name. All core Kubernetes resource sections should populate, along with **Custom Resources > CRD**.

Reviewer: Content question: the **OpenTelemetry** tab's verify step (line 235) explicitly states `The **Custom Resources > Resources** section is not supported with this setup.` This tab says nothing equivalent.

Is `Custom Resources > Resources` supported with the kube-stack chart? If it isn't, you can state that explicitly here. Omission reads as "supported" to readers, and AI assistants retrieving this section in isolation will infer the same. If it *is* supported, it's worth saying so, since the adjacent tab sets the opposite expectation.

Author: fixed:https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38552/changes/7914669b16cba973e8295ee8ecda886306167c96

> Open the [Kubernetes Explorer][1] and filter by your cluster name. All core Kubernetes resource sections should populate, along with **Custom Resources > CRD**.

Reviewer: Minor: for multi-level UI navigation, the convention is usually to bold each element separately (`**Custom Resources** > **CRD**`). That said, line 235 already uses this single-bold form, so consistency within the page is a reasonable argument for leaving it. Your call.

Author: fixed in https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38552/changes/7914669b16cba973e8295ee8ecda886306167c96, we can leave it for consistency
